# Event Tracker Project
## Fuel Mileage Tracker:
### Overview
'Event Tracker' is a broad term for anything that keeps track of information over time. The Fuel Mileage RESTFul API AProject was developed on a Spring Boot Frame work. The first phase of the project will consist of developing the backend structure using RESTFul api methodologies. The application will allow a user to track fuel mileage consumption for a visit at a local gas station. Also, in cases where a user owns more than 1 vehicle the user will be able to assign more vehicles.

### Learning Objectives
* Create a JPA Project
* Create a Java entity class POJO that models your database table.
* Map your POJO using JPA.
* Configure a Spring Boot app to publish a REST API.
* Use Spring REST annotations.
* Use Spring Data JPA to perform all CRUD operations.
* Send and receive JSON.

### Technologies
* Spring Boot/Tool Suite
* RESTFul API
* JPA Repositories
* HttpServletSession: Request and Response
* MySQL Database
* Java SE/EE
* Gradle
* Amazon AWS-EC2
* Postman API Development
* JSON
### Goal

Stretch Goals
JUnit tests for your repository, service, and controller layers.
Supplemental tables, mappings, and controller routes for nested CRUD.

### AWS-EC2 Connection:
[AWS-EC2 Link] (http://13.59.166.203:8080/FuelMileageREST/)



### Postman Operations
To test the api mapping copy the top link to the AWS-EC2 site. Next, in a Postman API Development Environment copy the the link and append the the proper GET method and the appropriate api path. For Example, a GET reference would look similar to  http://13.59.166.203:8080/FuelMileageREST/api/fuels to retrieve a complete list of all the entries. Below are all the accessable api paths. Replace the {id} with a desired entry id.

### Fuel RESTFul API:
| Return Type | Route | Functionality|
| --------: | ------: |----------: |
| List<Fuel> | GET api/fuels | Gets all fuels |
| Fuel | GET api/fuels/{id}	|Gets one fuel entry by id |
| Fuel | POST api/fuels |	Creates a new fuel entry |
| Fuel | PUT api/fuels/{id }| Replace a fuel entry by id |
| Fuel | PATCH api/fuels/{id} |	Update a fuel entry by id |
| Boolean | DELETE api/fuels/{id} |	Deletes a fuel entry by id |

* JSON Fuel Entry example. When performing a POST or PUT, MySQL will auto-generate the Fuel Entry Id and Date TimeStamp. DO NOT INCLUDE AN ID OR DATE IN EITHER THE POST OR PUT JSON.
* `{
        "id": 1,
        "date": "2016-06-30",
        "gallons": 5.18,
        "pricePerGallon": 1.939,
        "totalPrice": 10.04,
        "estimatedMiles": 169,
        "odometerReading": 1,
        "vehicle": {
            "id": 1,
            "vin": "xter",
            "year": 2012,
            "make": "Nissan",
            "model": "Xterra Pro-4x"
        }
    } `


### Vehicle RESTFul API:
| Return Type	| Route	| Functionality |
| --------: | ------: |----------: |
| List<Vehicle> | GET api/vehicles |	Gets all vehicle |
| Vehicle |	GET api/vehicles/{id} |	Gets one vehicle entry by id |
| Vehicle |	POST api/vehicles |	Creates a new vehicle entry |
| Vehicle |	PUT api/vehicles/{id} |	Replace a vehicle entry by id |
| Vehicle |	PATCH api/vehicles/{id} |	Update a vehicle entry by id |
| Boolean |	DELETE api/vehicles/{id} |	Deletes a vehicle entry by id |

 *  JSON Vehicle Entry example. When performing a POST or PUT, MySQL will auto-generate the Vehicle Entry Id. DO NOT INCLUDE AN ID IN EITHER THE POST OR PUT JSON.
 * `{
        "id": 1,
        "vin": "xter",
        "year": 2012,
        "make": "Nissan",
        "model": "Xterra Pro-4x"
    }`

### Javascipt Integration- WEEK 2 weekend additions

This project is as much about using JSON and SpringREST as it is handling JSON responses with JavaScript.

You are embarking on a weekend project that you may or may not come back to afterwards, thus we would caution you to limit your scope significantly. Last weekend we created a RESTful API that provided us with the ability to perform full CRUD on an event entity of our choosing.

This weekend we will be building out the front end for this application using Javascript.

### Learning Objectives
* Adding scripts to a web application
* Send asynchronous requests to Java controllers with JavaScript's `XMLHttpRequest`
* Consume and parse JSON responses with JavaScript
* Build HTML with JavaScript
* Send POST/PUT/DELETE requests with XMLHttpRequest

CRUD functionality are now accessible using a Javascript supported Front-end User Interface.
* The page when initiated will load the entire database history of All the FuelTracker Entries available for a specific User. In the project the User has 2 vehicles.

* Adding a new Fuel Tracker Entry: At the top of the page there are input fields to add a new entry. Input all the information for a fuel tracker entry. The remaining values are auto generated by the MySQL database.

* Editing a Fuel Tracker Entry: Each of the rows contains an edit button. Clicking on the button will populate the information for each of the database elements. Dynamically change the values and press the press the "Save Fuel Tracker Entry" to register the modifications.

* Deletion of a Fuel Tracker Entry: Two different switch actions exist. Simply press the delete button next to any row to delete an entry. The Alternative methods is to type a specific Fuel Tracker entry id number into the Delete input field.

For the aggregation the calculation of Estimated Mile / Gallons is integrated into the data table.

### Angular Front-end Integration- WEEK 3 weekend additions

### Learning Objectives
Configure an Angular application Use:
* Components
* Directives
* Send / receive JSON
* Send asynchronous request to Java controller with http

### Configure your application by bringing in dependencies and setting up the file structure.
The angular front end is very similar to the JavaScript front-end project in the prior week. Similar CRUD functionality exists in the angular front-end.

 Create/Read/Update/Delete functionality on the client can performed on each of the Fuel Tracker Entries. Begin by logging into the web-link.

* To add a new Entry Click on the blue Add new Fuel Entry button on the top right. A drop down will prompt you with text input field. Properly enter all field for a given fuel log entry.

* The program will automatically display all field entries for a given user. This project assumes the same user is logged and is viewing all fuel entries.

* To edit an Entry click on any row to navigate to the individual display page. On the individual display page all the Entries information displays to include the vehicles associated information.

* To delete an entry click on any row. Once the application routes you to the display page, simply press the delete button. It will delete the fuel entry for that specific row elements and remove the entry from the database.
